A normal heartbeat begins with
a group of specialized pacemaker cells
called the sinoatrial node
in the heart’s upper,
right chamber, or atrium.
Regular electrical impulses
from these cells
cause the atria to
contract or squeeze,
pushing blood into the lower
chambers or ventricles.
Traveling down to a junction
called the atrioventricular,
or AV node and on
to the ventricles,
these impulses then
signal the ventricles to contract.
This pumps blood out to the lungs
and the rest of the body.
Heat block means
these electrical impulses
can’t pass from the atria
to the ventricles.
As a result,
the contractions of these chambers
may not be coordinated,
which can cause a very
slow heart rate.